			OPALjr PLD Development Package
				 Version 2.01
				September  1993

This file contains important information regarding technical help and also 
notes about OPALjr that is not in the Manual.

OPALjr Copyright Note
---------------------

OPALjr is not copy protected, so you may make working copies for all of your
personal computer systems.  For additional copies of the software and manual,
or to request information regarding the full OPAL package, contact your local
National Semiconductor representative.

Technical Assistance
--------------------

If you have any problems, need technical assistance, or want to report
software bugs, please contact your local NSC representative or call one of the
numbers listed below.


		Region                  Telephone Number
		------                  ----------------
		U.S. and Canada         800-272-9959
		Europe                  (+49) 8141 103 260 (Germany)
		Asia                    +852-737-1869      (Hong Kong)
		Japan                   03-3299-7001
		BBS                     (408) 721-7418 (8-n-1, 2400-19.2K bps)
		Internet Address        PPGBBS@TEVM2.NSC.COM

They will need to know a variety of information about your system, such as:

	 Computer system type
	 Operating system type and version
	 Monitor type
       * Largest executable program size / Free memory

* You can get the largest executable program size by typing "mem" or "chkdsk"
	on the command line.

In addition, they will need to know exactly which version of the software you
are running.  The version number of the complete OPAL package can be found at
the top of this README file.  The version number of each module can be found
on the first line of the help screen when the program name alone is typed on
the command line, for example "pla2eqn".  To find the version number of the
OPAL graphic shell, type "opaljr -v".

They will also want to know the EXACT command line that you typed when the
problem occurred.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
OPALjr Installation
-------------------
Installation of the OPALjr software is accomplished by running the "install"
program located on this disk.  This program will copy all of the necessary
files into the specified directory on your hard disk.  It will also create a
batch file called "new_auto.bat" to use as an example for configuring your
system so that it can later find the OPALjr executable files.  OPALjr fully
supports paths so that project separation can be maintained on your disk.

This disk should contain:
	README
	OPALjr  .EXE
	OPAL    .HLP
	OPALdemo.EXE
	OPALwjr .EXE
	OPALwjr .HLP
	GETRVAL .EXE            ; Required for OPALwjr.exe
	GETRVAL .PIF
	EQN2JED .EXE
	JED2EQN .EXE
	PAL2GAL .EXE
	OPALVIEW.EXE
	OPALVIEW.HLP
	DEVICE  .LIB
	DEVICE  .SEL
	DEMO\*.*
	EXAMPLES\*.*

To work with OPALjr on a floppy disk system with only a single low-density
floppy disk drive, you will have to forgo the use of the OPAL graphic shell.
Copy the following files and directories onto the floppy disk:

	EQN2JED.EXE
	JED2EQN.EXE
	PAL2GAL.EXE
	DEVICE .LIB
	DEVICE .SEL
	\EXAMPLES\*.*

To work with OPALjr on a floppy disk system with a high-density floppy disk
system, simply make an exact copy of the OPALjr release diskette.

NOTE: The OPALjr graphical shells will each need about 300K of scratch
disk space on any available drive. This means that if you are working off
of a single floppy disk in A:, you may need to put an empty floppy disk
in B: if you do not have a hard disk.


Release Notes:
--------------

This section contains information that is not in the manual or correction to 
the manual.

   1.   In the manual it is discussed that one can specify the term global 
	with a dot extension to control an input to all macro cells in the 
	device.  This is not a correct usage of dot extensions.  "Global" is 
	not supported by OPALjr it is only supported by the full OPAL package.

   2.   In the GAL16V8 and GAL20V8 devices there is two ways to disable the             
	unused product terms; one is to use the product term disable(ptd) 
	architecture bits (see Data Sheet for detail on ptd) or to program all 
	fuses in the product term.  Previously OPALjr always used the ptd bits
	to disable the unused product terms in the devices.  We have added 
	a new option to eqn2jed.exe that will allow you to use either of the
	two options.
	The default of the software is to use the ptd to disable the unused             
	product terms.  You can use the -p option with eqn2jed from the 
	command line to not use the ptd bits this option( as with other 
	options) will be listed if you type eqn2jed at the command line.  We
	also added the directive @ptd to be used in the equation file to
	select either option.  (See the OPALjr 2.01 Manual on the use of the
	directives).  This particular directive has two forms:

	@ptd unused { do not allow the use of ptd}
	@ptd used   { use the ptd bits to disable unused product terms}

    3.  The pin numbers outputted by OPALjr in the JEDEC map and the LOG file
	will always default to DIP package pin numbers, but you can also output
	the PLCC pin numbers and PLCC chip diagram by selecting the option 
	" -j Select JEDEC PLCC chip diagram" for eqn2jed.  If you are, on
	the other hand translating a JEDEC file outputted from ABEL or any 
	other third party software and the file was generated for PLCC package
	you may have a problem using JED2EQN.

	The JEDEC map portion of the JEDEC file for both the PIN and PLCC are
	exactly the same.  The difference is in the pin numbers in the header.     
	This difference will not affect the programming of the device.

	We have supplied OPALjr with capabilities to output a JEDEC file and 
	read a JEDEC file made especially for the PLCC packages.  This can be 
	done by adding a V to the device name.  Thus a GAL20V8V is the PLCC 
	device, G20V8AV is also the PLCC device name.  Therefore, now you can 
	use those devices when working with the PLCC JEDEC file.
